Research Question --- How does media bias toward AI differ across business, political, and general interest news outlets in the United States?

-- Section 0.a: Business Case -- 

As artificial intelligence continues to expand and evolve so too does media coverage of its ongoing developments. Oftentimes, media articles involving artificial intelligence can be the main source of information for the general public, one that may or may not be saturated with bias - framing AI in either a positive or negative light. 
As such, we ask: how does media bias toward AI differ across business, political, and general interest news outlets in the United States? Understanding these biases becomes especially important as media literacy in the United States continues to be an essential focus in combating intentionally misleading or inaccurate information in 
the media (Boston University, 2024). Additionally, many media outlets function on the premise of manufactured consent (Pizarro, et. al., 2022) - framing and filtering information through five key pillars: ownership (corporate control of media), advertisement (catering to the interests of advertisers), sourcing (reliance on government or corporate spokespeople), 
flak (negative responses to dissenting media opinions), and fear ideology (focus on a common enemy, i.e. communism, terrorism, or other ideologies). For example, we expect to see more positive bias for AI from media outlets primarily focused on business or financial reporting, as it is in their best interest to frame AI positively to promote their corporate partners 
or advertisers, as well as to sensationalize the potential of AI while minimizing the potential negatives (exacerbating social biases, job loss, etc.) in favor of a larger enemy (profit loss, reduced market dominance, etc.). Another trend we expect to see is the defining of a common enemy for the general public through a focus on global threats (China, Russia, etc.) 
  of AI in privacy concerns or market dominance (Ittefaq, et. al., 2025). Overall, this topic gives us an excellent framework for applying topics learned in class, with many interesting precedents in comparative research to investigate.

